# Flight Monitor 
Project simulating airport flight monitoring activities:
gate and runway allocation, landing, take-off.

## Table of Contents

- [About](#about)
- [Technologies](#technologies)
- [Installing](#installing)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [API](#api)
- [Tests](#tests)

## About

Springvale airport needs a monitoring system for landing airplanes.
Being a relatively small airport, it has 4 gates:

* 3 for domestic flights
* 1 for international flights
In case of emergencies, there is also an available hangar for aircraft repairs.

The airport has 2 landing runways.
Domestic flights arrive every hour, while international flights arrive only at 07:00 or 21:00.
Once landed, an airplane is required to stay for 2 hours for checks, refueling, boarding, etc.
Airplanes coming for repairs stay between 2-5 days.

For a proper functioning of the airport and compliance with standards, the following need to be constantly inventoried:

* airplane

-> id   
-> number  
-> airplane model  
-> flight type (DOM/INT)  
-> source  
-> destination (for domestic flights, it's Springvale Airport)

* landing

-> reason (layover, destination, repairs)  
-> landing time  
-> runway used  
-> departure  

* gate

-> departure time  
-> runway used

## Technologies
python = "^3.10"  
pytest = "^7.2.1"  
flake8 = "^6.0.0"  
pydantic = "^1.10.6"  
pymongo = "^4.3.3"  
fastapi = "^0.95.1"  
uvicorn = "^0.22.0"  
Docker
MongoDB

## Installing
Docker and Mongo need to be installed separately.
DB needs to have already the gates and runways collections with documents.
For using containers -> 
use <docker-compose build> to build the image and 
<docker-compose up> to run the container.

## Usage
- main.py   

-> to run the app locally in the terminal. For this, use: 
uvicorn.run(app, host="127.0.0.1", port=5000, log_level="info")  

-> for local usage: in database.client --> cls._instance.client = MongoClient("mongodb://localhost:27017:27017")  

-> to use for Docker. For this, use: 
uvicorn.run(app, host="0.0.0.0", port=5000, log_level="info") --> access via all IPs

->  for docker make sure the dependency from docker-compose.yaml is properly set with the DB connection in database.client -->
cls._instance.client = MongoClient("mongodb://database:27017")

-> also, it helped mark the src folder as source root.

- main_old.py  

-> to use threads to automatically generate planes, land them and take-off

## API
API available for airplanes. 
The documentation is automatically generated by fastapi and is available at ({localhost:port}/docs).

## Tests
A couple of tests available: both unit and features.
Pytest fixtures - mostly used.
To run tests, make sure in __init__.py in src you have <import sys
sys.path.append('./src')>.
Run testes with command <pytest> --> +options (-vv etc)
